We've done a lot, but we're going to keep going, I don't want us to stop.
And I want to now show you how the browser goes from a source HTML document to displaying a styled and
interactive page in the viewport.
I know we keep referring to this entire process as a rendering process, but the more correct technical
terminology is to call it the critical rendering path.
So right now, I just want us to take a step back, and I want to show you what the critical rendering
path looks like at a very high level bird's eye view.
What is the first step for the first stage involves a browser passing the document your HTML to determine
what will ultimately be rendered onto the page.
The second stage involves the browser performing the actual render.
So how does this look?
So we know we've got a HTML.
This is what you and I are used to writing.
What happens next?
Well, the first step is full of rendering engine to pass the HTML document and convert that code into
dom nodes in a tree called the content tree.
But at the same time, not many people realize this.
The engine will also pass the styled alter.
The styling information, together with the visual instructions in the HTML, will be used to create
another tree.
The C is on tree.
And finally, the Dom Tree and the CSIS entree are combined to form their industry.
So that's our goal.
Our goal is to get from the age HTML, which you see to the industry and to get to that in state.
Both the DOM and this is on have to be created.
And what's our next goal?
Well, the next goal is to actually display that data on a screen.
In our case, we've got an H1 tag called critical rendering path that needs to be displayed onto our
browser.
How does it happen?
We see the first step is to construct the straw in the tree and after the construction of this tree,
it goes through a layout process.
This means giving each node the exact coordinates, which should appear on the screen, and the next
stage is painting.
The render tree will be traversed and each node will be painted using the UI back in layer.
And it's important to understand that this entire process is gradual.
For better user experience, the rendering engine will try to display content on the screen as soon
as possible.
It won't always wait until the HTML was passed before starting to build and lay out the industry.
Parts of the content we passed and displayed while the process continues and the rest of the content
keeps coming from the network.
And just remember what I said?
This whole process is technically called the critical rendering path.
And it's important for us to understand it because it will make us better developers.